---
sidebar_position: 1
---

## Double-Entry Accounting

Double-entry accounting tracks transfers between accounts. It records
the amount of the transfer along with where the amount came from and
where it goes.

## Why Does Double-Entry Accounting Matter?

Double-entry gives you something stronger than raw data consistency,
namely financial consistency, by acting as a financial error
correcting code to keep the books balanced.

It does this just like Newton's Third Law—for every movement of money
into an account, there is an equal and opposite movement of money from
a different account. This ensures that money cannot be created or
destroyed, but is merely transferred from one account to another, just
like the law of conservation of energy.

Because it's so simple, it's also highly composable. And so it gives
you tremendous flexibility to model your business, even as product
lines come and go, or as your business evolves. We have often seen
organizations rediscover double-entry accounting over time, requiring
painful database migrations as they evolve toward double-entry.

Double-entry accounting is the language of business, the world
over. It's the tried and tested schema for representing any kind of
business, any kind of transaction. While you can think of double-entry
as the perfect way to describe any kind of financial state transition,
it's also the perfect way to track and “account” for anything, any
kind of business or real world event, not necessarily financial.

"What advantages does he derive from the system of book-keeping by
double-entry? It is among the finest inventions of the human mind;
every prudent master of a house should introduce it into his economy."
— Goethe, 1795
